It completely changed my energy levels.
It made me exothermic again. It made me
excited again. It made me want to
recommmit year after year after year to
to Shopify and to Toby and to and to
this mission that we're on. Go a little
deeper on your father and how that's
impacted you and what that relationship
was like. At 17 years old, the rug got
pulled from me and I was forced to
basically grow up overnight. Ultimately,
if you think about the mission of
Shopify, it's we want to create more
entrepreneurs. We want to make
entrepreneurship more accessible, but we
think that entrepreneurship allows
anyone to do that. It's the great
equalizer. The way that I think I had
the most amount of value to Shopify is
the same thing that I want to be world
class at, which is
I want to start with what areas of your
life do you think you have what other
people would consider unreasonably high
standards?
Um maybe start with I mean
professionally I think I am
I'm pretty hard on myself in terms of
achievement. Um years ago I read
something about the concept of of
abundance versus
uh scarcity mindsets.
And I think generally I do not have an
abundance mindset about the things in my
life. Some of that may be I don't know
this is going deep as in the first
minute but some of that might just be
like multigenerational trauma which I
actually believe in. I think I carry
some of the weight of my grandparents,
Holocaust survivors, the weight of my
father who struggled his whole life
financially. But I think the way it
manifests most is probably with my own
career that I don't I still don't think
I'm doing enough, that I have enough,
that I am enough. And um that's probably
the largest area where I think I have
very high standards. Maybe the second
one is just I have very high standards
for relationships. I think that the
friendships that I have, I hold very
dearly in my life. And because I hold
them dearly, I hold them up to a very
high caliber of of quality.
And sometimes that disappoints people.
Sometimes it means those people
disappoint me. Um, those are probably
the two major ones.
Go a little deeper on your father and
how that's impacted you and what that
relationship was like.
My dad is an immigrant to we're sitting
here in Montreal. He immigrated here in
the 50s. His parents were Holocaust
survivors. After the Holocaust, they
were in the concentration camps. They
survived. They went to Hungary uh to a
town called Debritton.
And during the Hungarian Revolution,
things got really bad for everyone, but
especially for Jews. Canada had had this
amazing program where they let 40,000
Hungarian immigrants come to Canada in
the revolution. So actually in Canada if
you meet Hungarians generally they came
in 56 because this sort of cohort of of
Hungarians came in the 50s. They all
came by boat. And um my dad when they
got here they didn't have any money.
They had no uh didn't know anyone here.
They certainly didn't have any
education. So my grandfather ended up
selling eggs at a local farmers market
not too far from here called the the
Jeala farmers market. And he created
this egg stand. He called it Lapien. It
still stands there today. My uncle runs
it. It's been around for I don't know 75
years, something like that. And um I
think my dad was always very ambitious.
He was he had that sort of that that
immigrant ambition. He wanted to he
wanted to have a better life than his
parents had and he wanted his children
to have a better life than he had. And
growing up, he always sort of made us
feel like we had we had enough. there
was never sort of a sense of of scarcity
uh in the in the house whatsoever. It
was only later in life that I realized
that that it was a bit of a a fugazi. It
was it was fake. Uh that we really
didn't have very much. But at the time,
I didn't know that. It felt like I had
enough. And um where things came to a
head and and and you know, you and I
have been friends for a long time, so
you know the story. Um was when I was
17, my dad was arrested. I went to
prison and that was sort of the first
time that I saw
true vulnerability. That's that's where
it all sort of the facade of a secure
foundation came crumbling down for me. I
just moved we were living in South
Florida. I just moved to Montreal here.
Uh it was 2001 to go to McGill. Mom
calls and says dad's been arrested. Uh
he he was arrested for white collar
crimes and um for business crimes and
I was
I was mad at him. I was disappointed at
him. I was too young to fully have the
maturity to know what this all meant. Um
and I think a lot of people talk about,
you know, how trauma in their lives
dictate the rest of their lives. I think
the moment actually there's um there's
an apartment not too far from here on
the corner of uh Dr. Penfield and Peele.
Uh there's an apartment in that
building. Uh I think it's apartment 405
where there's probably not there
anymore, but there is a there was a hole
in the wall where after my mother called
me to tell me my dad was arrested, I
took the phone and threw it against the
wall and and and and dented the wall. We
can sort of get into what happened after
that, but if you sort of fast forward
today, um my dad's back in my life, I
have a great relationship with him. I
think like a lot of people that are of
my vintage, I'm 41. You do begin around
this stage of life to
have this epiphany or at least this
realization that like the relationship
of parent and child flips a little bit.
In some ways, I feel like I'm sort of
the parent to my to my parents now. I
wasn't ready for that. that sort of came
out of nowhere. My parents turned 70 and
I just something changed. But my
relationship with my dad is is is it's
loving and um I have deep admiration for
the life he's given me.
But certainly I think some of the trauma
he sustained from being an immigrant,
from being the child of Holocaust
survivors. I've adopted that through his
experiences, but also through the fact
that at 17 years old, the rug got pulled
from me and I was forced to basically
grow up overnight. Was that the moment
where your standards for yourself
changed? Cuz I I guess what I'm getting
into is like so often we're born into a
situation, a household, uh uh we're
surrounded by people. We don't choose
them. We, you know, we don't choose our
parents. We don't choose our zip code.
We don't choose uh concentration camps
or anything like that. We're put in
these situations and we adopt the
standards of the people, the mindset of
the people that we're in and then
there's like another level to it often
for a lot of us. If we're not born into
a situation where a parent has a high
standard for themselves, then we don't
adopt that ourselves. And I think a lot
of entrepreneurs share this constant I
can be doing more. I can be doing
better. There's a gap between where I
perceive I could be and where I am.
I remember we moved to South Florida in
or '95 or so. I was around 12 years old.
The area we moved into, it was in Boca
Raton, Florida in Palm Beach County.
Bokeh is well known as being a fairly
wealthy area, but we were not wealthy. I
mean, again, when we lived in Montreal,
I didn't experience any there was always
food on my table. I always felt like,
you know, I didn't always have all the
stuff that I wanted, the, you know, the
Air Jordans, but I had one pair of Air
Jordans. Um, and so I didn't I didn't
live a life of of where I didn't have
enough growing up. But I remember moving
to South Florida and that was the first
time I think that I realized that other
people have a lot more than I did.
There were gated communities everywhere,
but we didn't live in one. There were
incredible private schools everywhere,
but I couldn't attend one because it was
too expensive. It was sort of in that
age group, in that sort of range where I
began to realize that um my father
wanted to have a better life than he
did. That he was he wasn't living in a
community where we were the average or
we were above average. We were living in
a community where we were below average.
I remember asking my parents why I
couldn't go to private school. There
were these beautiful private schools all
over Boca Raton, these with these big,
beautiful gates and these wonderful
buildings. And I remember asking my
parents, why can't I go to Pinerest or
St. Andrews, which are the two big
schools? And my mom said, we can't
afford it. It was like $30,000 a year,
which was an insane amount of money for
my parents at that point. And I think
that's actually around when I began to
get my first chip on my shoulder.
Something didn't sit fully well with me.
And and I I think the way it manifested
was
ambition, competitiveness, some
insecurity. So, I mean, there I was
going to a public high school in South
Florida. I was a, you know, I was a
short Jewish kid from Montreal, Canada.
Moved to South Florida. Had no friends
or family. There were 4,000 students at
the school. And there were students from
all different backgrounds. Some live in
Bokeh. Some were being busted in from
Del Rey, a much lower lower income
community. There were police officers
because that's what you had at big
American public high schools. And
I was scared shitless. I don't know sort
of what what drove me then, but like
within a year I was like president of
student council. I was wrestling varsity
uh because I figured out actually one of
the advantages of being short and kind
of stocky was I was a pretty good
wrestler. And so I was able to change my
circumstances
by sheer will at that point. The second
thing that happened around that same
period of time was that I really I was
13 and as as as you've heard before, you
heard me talk about all 13-year-old
Jewish kids go to a lot of bar mitzvah
almost every weekend. Um, and I was
enamored by DJs. I thought these DJs at
these bar mitzvah were like magicians.
And I really thought these were the
coolest people I'd ever seen. And
although my dad didn't have a lot of
money, the one thing he he did do, and
he's done this my whole life, was
anytime I I had an idea, and I shared
with my father, he would say, "Great
idea." He actually there would be a
physical manifestation of that, which
was that he would make me these business
cards. And uh um tonight you and I are
having dinner at my home, and we'll go
to my off my home office, and I would
show you those early business cards, but
I still have them lined up in my office.
Every time I had a silly idea about a
business, my father would come home with
a business card that said my name and
the business name. And it was this very
simple physical device that was the
equivalent of him saying, "You
absolutely can do this. You are you you
have the capacity. You have the
willpower. You are you have the
entitlement. Like you are you can do
this. You have the permission to go do
this." And I ended up DJing 500
barbitzvas after that. started my own DJ
company, hired myself,
and that was sort of my relationship
with my I think with my dad over over my
life, which is that I don't think I
fully understood the baggage he was
carrying with him his whole life.
But he was unequivocally supportive and
loving of me. And even when years later
when he when he went away and we lost
all our money, it was tough for me to
hate him because ultimately what I
really believed was he was doing it for
me. That he was going he was taking
massive risks with his own life and his
own freedom in order to give me and my
two much younger one of my sisters is 10
years younger, the other is is three
years younger. He was doing it to give
me and my siblings a much better life.
and he was willing to risk what ended up
being five or six years of of federal
prison time to provide that for us. And
as I sort of reflect on on my upbringing
and my childhood,
it'd be difficult for me not to credit
his transfer of confidence to me with
kind of how I ended up. So I have I have
anxiety now. Uh I I am uh constantly,
you know, trying to do more, feel more,
build more, have more. That that that
that that feeling of of of scarcity is
in me. There's a bunch of of negative
externalities that come with that. But
the other thing that came with it is
what I believe to be an incredible
amount of ambition. And that ambition
and that energy, u you and I have a lot
of mutual friends and and and and I I
think most of our mutual friends would
describe me as someone that has is
constantly high energy. that high energy
mostly comes from a place of deviv and
excitement and you I heard this great
quote that part of being happy is being
excited by the elements all the elements
of your life I'm excited by all the
elements of my life and I think that
while I probably have a complicated
relationship with my dad
I am here and I have this life partially
because of him
thank you for sharing
You know what doesn't belong in your
summer plans? Getting burned by your old
wireless bill. While you're locking in
itineraries, your wireless bill should
be the last thing holding you back.
That's why I recommend the switch to
Mint Mobile. No gimmicks, just a smarter
play most people overlook. You make
smart trade-offs everywhere else in
life. Why not here? All plans come with
a high-speed data and unlimited talk and
text delivered on the nation's largest
5G network. Use your own phone with any
Mint mobile plan and bring your phone
number along with all your existing
contacts. It's a small switch that
compounds over time. Just like any great
decision, most people leave money on the
table. This is how you stop doing that.
If I had needed this product, it's what
I'd use. The savings are unbeatable.
This year, skip breaking a sweat and
breaking the bank. Get this new customer
offer and your three-month unlimited
wireless plan for 15 bucks a month at
mintmobile.com/nowledge
project. That's mintmobile.com/nowledge
project. Upfront payment of $45
required, equivalent to $15 a month.
Limited time new customer offer for
first 3 months only. Speeds may vary
above 35 gigabytes on unlimited plan.
Taxes and fees extra. See Mint Mobile
for details. You know, people talk a lot
about product market fit, sales tactics,
or pricing strategy. But the truth is,
success in selling often comes down to
something much simpler, the system
behind the sale. That's why I use and
love Shopay because nobody does selling
better than Shopify. They've built the
number one checkout on the planet. And
with Shopay, businesses see up to 50%
higher conversions. That's not a
rounding error. That's a gamecher.
Attention is scarce. Shopify helps you
capture it. and convert it. If you're
building a serious business, your
commerce platform needs to meet your
customers wherever they are on your
site, in store, in their feed, or right
inside their inbox. The less they think,
the more they buy. Businesses that sell
more, sell on Shopify. If you're serious
about selling, the tech behind the
scenes matters as much as the product.
Upgrade your business and get the same
checkout that I use. Sign up for your $1
per month trial period at
shopify.com/nowledge
project. All lowercase. Go to
project to upgrade your selling today.
Shopify.com/nowledge
project.
Going into all the elements of your
life.
I know you're very selective about the
things that you take on and the things
that you do and you say no to a lot. I
want to explore that a little bit. What
do you want to be world class at? And so
what are the key elements of your life
that you're pushing on?
I am I'm not a generalist. I've never
been a generalist.
If you were to ask Lindsay, if you'd ask
my wife, um in fact, if you were to ask
my 8-year-old daughter Bailey or my
six-year-old daughter Zoe what our
family motto is, they'd all tell you the
exact same thing. Uh it is how you do
anything is how you do everything. That
is our family motto, which frankly it
means because they're six and eight, uh
means it's my family motto and I've just
sort of told them that's their family
motto and they've they've adopted
wholesale. Eventually they'll be old
enough to decide that whether it's for
them or not. But that motto, certainly
for me and Lindsay, my wife, it it it
describes our life. There is an
intentionality about everything that we
do in our lives. The way that I think
about um leading this incredible company
um with my team at Shopify to the way
Lindsay thinks about cooking dinner to
um the wine that I've been thinking
about you and I are going to drink later
tonight. There's a great intentionality
about all these things and and I think
that makes life fun and interesting. But
what I've come to realize, um this is my
16th year at Shopify. I'm 41, so I've
been here for not quite half my life,
but almost. Um, the way that I think I
had the most amount of value to Shopify
is the same thing that I want to be
world class at, which is I want to be a
great storyteller.
I don't think I'm there yet. Um, I've
met truly world-class storytellers. We
can sort of get into some of those later
on. I'm not there yet, but that is the
thing I want to be the best at. I love
playing tennis. I don't think I'm ever
going to be a world-class tennis player.
I love to ski. Don't think I'm ever be a
world-class skier. There are things in
my like DJ, I don't think I'm ever gonna
be a world class D. There are things I I
do in my life that are fun, that are
strictly for enjoyment, and I enjoy the
craft of it, but storytelling in
particular is something that when I look
at all the different things I've done at
Shopify, it's the thing that I think has
added the most amount of value to the
company. And this also speaks to my my
dynamic, this yin and yang dynamic that
I have with Toby, which is that I've
sort of always in hindsight now, I can
sort of see this, but I've always sort
of viewed my role as as he is the
greatest product person I've ever met in
my life. He's this incredible tech
visionary, especially when it comes to
commerce. And my job has kind of always
been to take the brilliant things he's
built and tell the world about it. Tell
investors, tell the media, tell our
merchants, tell partners.
and it gives me great joy. I love doing
it. It's that, you know, when your
Saturday morning feels like your Monday
morning, you know, you're on to
something really great, which is sort of
the opposite of, you know, what people
describe as like Sunday scaries, which
I've never felt my whole life, but I
know people do find that that to be a
real thing.
It's storytelling.
I love that. And you also want to be a
world-class father and husband.
Those are harder things.
very difficult to
ping the satellite and get a ping back
to know whether or not that's actually
happening. With storytelling,
I can get third party objective
feedback.
Being a world-class father and and
husband, it's more difficult to track
that. But those are things that are very
important to me. It is very important to
me that my kids believe that I'm a
world-class father and my wife thinks
I'm a world-class husband. And that
comes actually less natural to me than
storytelling. Storytelling is sort of my
ground state. It's the thing that I
would do if if you know if I didn't have
anything else to do and and I was left
to my own devices.
Tell I would tell stories. I like
telling stories. Being a great husband
often means doing things that are
unnatural. Um, a simple example that I
think a lot of us fall into the trap of,
um, seems to be more of a uh, something
that that that men suffer from, at least
in my experience, which is that Lindsay
comes home with a problem and my
immediate reaction is to try to help her
solve that problem. I don't know if it's
biological. I'm not sure it's my whether
it's my amydala or my lizard brain, but
there's some my reflexively I I go into
problem solving mode. It feels like like
that's what I'm supposed to do. And
eight out of 10 times it's not what she
wants. And so because I know that I'm
bad at that, we've created these, you
know, our version of pneummonic devices
which is like I now ask her, do you want
me to solve this problem or do you want
me to just listen? And almost always she
just wants to be able to listen. So in
this in in the the opposite of like you
know someone asked me a question on a
topic and I can go on a a tangent about
a story I actually have to spend a lot
of time moving from my amigdula to my
pre prefrontal cortex
to actually be a great husband to her.
Same thing with the kids. Um often what
I realize is my reflex with my with
Bailey and Zoe is often the wrong thing.
Bailey tells me about a problem. I go in
solution mode and what Lindsay will
often say is that's not what she was
asking you to do. She just wanted to be
heard or she was looking for your advice
or she wasn't looking for you to solve
the problem for her. So that journey I
think I'm I am um
I'm not I'm not at the sort of escape
velocity yet with those two things that
I want to get good at. I think it's
interesting because a lot of people who
hold themselves to high standards in any
area, hold themselves to high standards
in every area and they want competing
things. They want to be world class at
their profession. They also want to be
world class at being a father and world
class at being a mother or partner or
and they want to be world class at
everything. And these things often are
in conflict with each other.
Um, when I was younger, I used to play
Street Fighter. And Street Fighter, uh,
when you pick your character, you
basically pick a character for two
reasons. One is based on appearance. You
want the big character, you want the
small character, you want the, you know,
the woman or the man or whatever the
character might be. The second element
is you'll get the scores and either
they're great at defense and then
they're bad at offense, or they're great
at jumping but they're bad in kicking.
I think kind of life is like that a
little bit too that you have to sort of
pick your what you want to be good at.
cannot be good at jumping, defense,
offense, kicking, punching in sort of
the, you know, in in in the uh the
metaphor of Street Fighter. I think you
have to pick. And I think that that
that's kind of what prioritization is.
It's deciding what you want and then
reminding yourself of what you want.
There are things that
every now and then I get a glimmer of,
you know, have I traveled the world
enough? Probably not. Do I take my kids
on enough, you know, like month-long
trip, safaris? I don't. I I can't do
that right now. I have to select what
I'm going to do. I can't be everything
to everyone. And I I've kind of made
peace with that years ago that at this
particular phase of my life, this is
what I I I need and this is what I want.
It's also the reason why I'm very um
particular about who I spend my time
with because I do believe that there are
genuinely energy vampires and energy
catalysts in humans. Um, there's also
energy vampires and energy catalysts
even in in geographies. I mean, you
know, I I moved to Montreal two years
ago. Partially was Montreal was this
place that Lindsay and I kept finding
was this energy catalyst for us. When we
would come into the city, we'd spend
time here. Something changed in our
brains. And I think you have to be
deliberate about those things like what
do you want to be good at? What do you
want to spend your time on? Who do you
want to spend your time with? Where do
you want to spend your time from from a
a geographic perspective? And I think if
you try to do all of it all the time,
you end up being very mediocre.
Most people don't want to prioritize
because I mean they do in a way, but
they don't want to say no to anything.
They don't It's sort of like think about
the courage to close doors.
And it's really hard to say no to
things.
It's especially hard especially if those
things there's an element of things that
that give you joy. I don't think you can
live I don't think the if you use the
lens in your life of how you do anything
is how you do everything you have to be
very careful about like how you do
things because if you want to do
everything well or you want to do
everything with intentionality you just
have to be selective I don't know anyone
who is great at everything um the
mentors in my life the the role models
in my life they tend to be
spiky objects
Shopify is a team of spiky Y objects. We
often joke about it as like the island
of Misfit Toys. But what that what we
really mean is that there's no there's
no consultant in the world that would
have put together the team at Shopify.
In the early days, kind of in the in the
sort of the middle uh you know post IPO
days and certainly modern days right now
in 2025 there's no team that like
there's no no one will put together this
team but it works. Why? Because there is
this commitment
on our team that whatever whatever the
thing you're responsible for, you are
going to try to be the very very best in
the world at that particular thing.
Product design, sales, storytelling,
finance, legal, whatever that might be.
That's the commitment. And then every
year you have to re-qualify for that
commitment. when you look at other
companies, um I've sort of poked on
Google a little bit on this only because
I know a few people there that that are
that that are like this, but you do see
much more well-rounded
executives and more well-rounded
leaders. Um it's actually the reason why
netn net I always prefer founder-ledd
companies than professionally managed
companies. I think founder led companies
are more interesting.
Talk to me about the the notion of
re-qualifying for your job every year.
What does that mean? Um, it's sort of I
mean it it's it's in the sort of same
way that like we have this trust battery
metaphor that at Shopify those with
autonomy have a very high trust battery
and those that end up having to lead the
company it's because their trust battery
is so low that like an old cell phone it
just cannot be recharged. You don't know
exactly are you at 46% or 66%. But you
know direction where you're at. Um, the
same type of thing exists for this
re-qualification that you can tell when
someone I I think you can tell when
someone is re-qualifying for their job.
What that means is if you think about
the growth of Shopify, which it grows,
you know, we've we're growing a lot.
Forget sort of the the topline revenue
or free cash margin growth or anything
like that, but just like the growth of
Shopify, product areas, GMV, the number
of merchants, the geographies, the
impact we have on the world, it is
growing at this massive pace.
I think in order to be on our team,
especially to be a leader at Shopify,
you have to believe that you have to
want to keep getting better. Meaning,
stasis is not acceptable. The thing you
did last year may may have got you a
high five and a boy and a pat on the
back and and and a and a whatever all
the great stuff that comes along with
that, that is not good enough anymore.
And actually at Shopify, I think that's
truly I mean, the source of that energy
is Toby. that there's probably no one
that I've ever met on the planet. I've
worked with Toby now for almost two
decades. You know him very well, too.
He's a friend of yours as well. There is
no one that
pushes himself to be the very best at
product and technology the way he does.
And so, he inspires all of us to to just
continuously say, "Okay, last year was
pretty good. This next year, I think I
can like I think there's another another
year left." That's actually the the the
gift that he has given me in my career
is that he's consistently over uh you
know almost two decade period he has
been the person more than anyone in my
life maybe other than Lindsay who has
seen a better version of me than I saw
for myself. He keeps reminding me all
the time. It happened a couple weeks
ago. We run an offsite that there is
another gear in me. And so now he
presents that that optionality that that
that that opportunity and now it's up to
me to actually go through. Um,
and I think for someone with my
personality, with someone with my
ambition, that works very well for me.
What does it look like when he reminds
you that there's another level for you?
Does he just come? He He doesn't come to
you and say, "Hey, Harley, there's
another level for you." What does he
say?
He's much more German about it. Um,
which is funny because he sort of calls
it the German. It's like the German
thing for him, but it's actually also
like the Jewish mother thing for me,
which is, you know, you just got 98% on
your exam, you go see your mom, and your
mom says, "Great, what happened to the
other 2%." Um, which actually I've now
learned, it's actually very much a um,
at least the way it's been described to
me is that it's actually an immigrant
thing that a lot of immigrant parents
are like that. like that's great but
like what happened here? How can you do
better? So that's part of it. The other
part of it is just that when he gives me
a compliment, it is because
I went I went so above and beyond like
he basically sets a bar for me of what
great looks like and doing my job really
well is the expectation. knocking out of
the park going like resetting what
corporate storytelling looks like or how
to do you know earnings
when you do that exceptionally well
that's when he says that was a great job
and he is he's very thoughtful about how
he explains how he gives those that was
really great he kind of shows you that
thing you did that is so far beyond the
expectation of of the industry that you
were resetting it there's this really
great thing we talk about um which is
it'd be really great like I say this I
say this a lot but I adopted from him
which is every person that works at
Shopify should be able to go to their
industry conference whatever their cate
whatever area they're in the business
and they should give the keynote about
how they're doing their job completely
different than everybody in the crowd
which is like the most global maxima not
local maxima thing. It is like the local
maxima is like like you know you're at
the top of the mountain you're doing
better than everyone else is doing your
job. the global maximum which is like
Toby in a nutshell is there's a whole
other man over here that's where that's
how you re-qualify and that makes it
incredibly challenging but also
incredibly rewarding there's this you
know thing about life's work I think it
obviously gets lumped into like you know
happiness and contentment and all that
sort of stuff also um we can talk about
how to find your life's work but
ultimately I think the way you continue
to do your life's work is is when you
feel fundamentally that you can see
serious progress. It's not type one fun.
It's like type two fun. And type two fun
is a type of fun that you only realize
that it was fun after you complete it.
In the middle of the race, it's not
really that much fun. It's at the finish
line. You're like, "Wow, that was fun."
That tends to be the developmental
journey of of Shopify.
A little anecdote about the that's your
job, that's what you're supposed to do.
I was at an NFL training camp and uh I
was with Kyle Dubas who was the GM of
the Maple Leafs at the time and we were
watching this practice and this rookie
receiver caught the ball and it was a
great catch but he started celebrating.
The coach came over and he's like that's
what you're supposed to do. Why are you
celebrating?
I'm paying you to catch the ball your
whole job.
You're paid to catch the ball. And it
stuck with me ever since then.
That's right. It is um I think when
you're when you're playing at a certain
level of of play whether it's through
podcast or through business or through
sport or music you know or art music if
you try to if if you want to be above
average most people can get there
practice determination but this idea of
thinking about things in sort of this
like local maximum versus global maximum
perspective creates a whole other
surface area of which you can go and and
do crazy and cool stuff. I do think that
is difficult to do by yourself. Um I
think you actually are one of the unique
situations where you hold yourself to
such a high standard that you actually
don't need anyone pulling you to get
better at your craft because you hold
yourself to this ridiculous standard.
Most people are not like that. Most
people need someone else to to help them
pull up to the next level. And if you
find someone like that and you and you
sort of mutually commit to one another,
I mean, that's real partnership. That
makes for that's how you build a hundred
billion dollar company. I think
it's fascinating because I tell my kids
that, right? Like when you're at school
like try to partner with the people who
are going to hold you to the highest
standard, who are going to demand the
most from you, who are going to show you
what you're capable of and what you can
do. Uh and they take that too and they
hold other people to really high
standards.
That's right. That's right. And then you
sort of, you know, it's it is ironic
though and almost paradoxical that, you
know, the people that you often hang out
with in high school or or school in
general, um, tend to be very much like
you. And what I've actually experienced
is that I actually think the best
partnerships, at least from business
perspective, are people that are totally
not like you. Totally. I'm not sure Toby
and I would have been friends in high
school. I was class president. He was
like taking apart computers in his
bedroom.
Um, the people you tend to spend more
time with that you gravitate gravitate
to, you tend to have similar interests
with. you tend to have similar skill
sets with, you're both into basketball,
you're both into, you know, debate club
or whatever it might be. But actually,
if you're in high school right now and
you're watching this and you want to
start a company, my my advice would be
if you're in like drama club, go find
someone like in the AV club and then go
find someone in like the computer like
the coding club and go find someone like
who's painting and those should be your
co-founders because each of you now can
bring different skill sets to the table
and together you can build something
remarkable. My youngest wants to start a
company and he's like, "Why should I go
to university? Why do I want to go to
college?" He's like, "I don't need
that." And I'm like, "Well, maybe just
to find a co-founder, you do it." Yeah.
I want to come back to sort of uh
re-qualifying for your job though
because you switched from being COO to
being president or chief storyteller as
you call it. Talk to me about that
transition, how you came to realize that
was the thing because you went from
thousands of people reporting to you to
a smaller number, even if it's a lot of
people, it's still much smaller
at a seven or 8,000 person company. Like
a small number of people, still a lot of
people, but
yeah, that was um okay, so a couple
things on that and a couple different
sort of um levels of of abstraction. I
guess I do believe that there are
different phases of companies and I
think at the early phases of companies,
it's just It's just mayhem. Like
everybody do everything. It's like Swiss
Army knife time. And in those early days
of Shopify, there's a photo that every
couple years I I I put out on on social
media of me like mopping the floors. Uh
you may have seen it, but like I I may
have mopped the floor once or twice, but
it was it's sort of a you know, it's
it's a metaphor for like those early
days that like the floor is dirty.
You do everything.
You do everything. That's kind of how it
works. And then I think you know as the
company begins to operationalize you
begin to have teams and organizations
and general managers and divisions and
all that. I became chief operating
officer around the just just post IPO
until around 2021 I think so for six
years. I did it because that's what Toby
asked me to do. Um we'd never had a COO
before and and and it was sort of this
way of me looking after operations
specifically business operations.
It didn't come naturally to me. Um, but
back to sort of the, you know, lifelong
learner and the global maxima thing and
Toby pushing me into different
directions. I was like, I'm going to get
good at this. But it was never natural
to me. Never felt like I was in my flow
state. But I liked it. I liked having a
big team. I liked being responsible for
a lot of things. There was a little bit
of
ego in there. Um, I felt very important.
And
it took me a while to realize that
maybe this isn't for me. Maybe I'm not
the right person to do it. Around the
same time, um, I had someone that that
we had hired that that was reporting to
me who was running our payments team,
Cass. And
in almost every interaction I had, it
did sort of feel like, man, Cass really
likes operations. Like like he just it
feels like his ground state. He's kind
of always doing it. and and and so I I I
saw glimmers of like what people that
are truly operationally minded look
like. But a couple a couple hurdles I
had, one is that um I don't think I was
ready to admit that this was not for me.
This wasn't my thing. I don't like to
admit that I'm not good at something. I
I prefer much to get better at it. I
also I think I was afraid to say the
thing I want to do is is like
storytelling. It felt like maybe that's
not enough
and
and it it came with, you know, smaller
team. It came with it just came with
less,
you know, um less areas of
responsibility. Um even though each
others were shallow, I was like what I
really want to do is this other thing.
It's like one area of responsibility,
but it's really really deep. Is that
enough for me? It became obvious to me
that that wasn't the right the right the
right right thing. And actually, I think
it became obvious to Toby that like I
wasn't very happy. I wasn't being my
exothermic self.
Mhm.
And for someone that's always been
exothermic, that's always been high
energy, um, in those sort of at the end
of my of my, you know, COO stage, I
didn't have it. I just I I wasn't
meeting merchants the same way that I
like I love meeting merchants, my
favorite thing in the world. I just I
wasn't
it was clear I was in the wrong gear and
it was Toby that identified it and said
there's this other thing we could find
someone to be the chief operating
officer and uh and it was actually
between myself and um and and Cass taken
it was Toby Shannon who initially took
it uh who was a great chief operating
officer uh chief co as well. Toby almost
gave me the permission to say this other
thing that you think is maybe not
enough, it's like it's it's totally
enough. Like this is super important and
more importantly, you can be world class
at this thing.
And that was this like huge aha moment.
That was it reminded me that okay, the
ven diagram of what I love doing, you
know, like it's like the icky guy almost
perfectly described like what do you
love? What is the world value? What can
you get paid for? What like I forget all
the different components of it, but
that's generally the icky guy.
Immediately as I began to even
understand what I was, I was like that's
it for me. It's like this role, the
storyteller, the president of the
company where my job is to infect in the
most positive way the world with the
Shopify message that every enterprise
merchant on the planet that should be on
Shopify, I'm going to convince them to
do so. That every partner that should
work with us, I'm going to convince
them. that every investor knows exactly
how great of a company this is. That
every media opportunity I have that I'm
going to talk about the the the journey,
this product, this this incredible piece
of software we've built, why it is so
important, why it is so dramatically
different than everything else that has
come before us. I don't know, it was
four or five years ago. Um,
it completely changed my energy levels.
It made me exothermic again. It made me
excited again. And it wanted it made me
want to recommmit year after year after
year to to Shopify and to Toby and to
and to this mission that we're on. I I
fell in love with the mission again. I I
almost forgot about the mission for a
while. It became so operational. And
what it also substantiated was that
I didn't have to be good at all these
different things. If the one thing that
I feel I can be world class to go back
to that concept is sufficiently value ad
that will change the company that will
change the direction of the company
that's enough. I am enough to do that.
Um and I I really think that most
companies end up looking at a buffet of
their leaders and looking at the slots
that are available and just go like like
go here, go here, go there. And I think
it takes a very thoughtful and very
often a founder CEO or founder leader
like Toby, someone like that to say,
"Okay, here are the players I have. Here
are the things that are most important.
I'm going to skill match." So, it isn't
who's been there the longest or who's
had that job somewhere else. It is who
is the very best person on the planet,
not in the company, on the planet for
this job. If that person exists here,
that's the job they should do. It
allowed me to recommit for a lot longer
to Shopify to to working here to helping
to build this company. It's made me a
lot happier. Um, even Lindsay would say
that between 2020 and 2022, which I use
those years because we're still in COVID
and like we were still work from home
and and I wasn't around a lot of people
and as a power extrovert that was
challenging for me, but simply changing
my areas of responsibility completely
re-engaged me and it's it feels like
this is a job that I always should have
had. I think Shopify I think Shopify had
to get to a particular size and place
for me to do this. It almost feels like
Shopify kind of grew into the company
that would allow me to be its
storyteller. I couldn't have done this
in 2010 or 2013 or 2018. It had to
happen at the right time. Um, and I'm
super fortunate that it did and grateful
that it did.
I feel like you've had more of an impact
than you think, not only on Shopify, but
on other companies. I feel like the
storytelling and getting out there more
like you've really changed
the bar for a lot of other companies as
well. So, not only Shopify, but you've
sort of set other people didn't even
know it was possible to have that sort
of impact. I
that means a great deal to me. Um, that
goes back to that industry, you know,
conference that we talked about as a
metaphor that, you know, I try to stand
I I want to be able to stand up at at at
the conference of every chief
storyteller, every, you know, president
of any of any company in the world and
say, "Here's doing it differently." Um,
you know, Lulu is on our board, who's an
amazing, uh, probably one of the
greatest comm's geniuses on the planet
talks about this go direct. She has a
famous go direct manifesto. That's kind
of what I've always been doing. this
idea that
even the way that I I treat earnings,
it's not a it's not an earnings call for
me. It's a storytelling opportunity.
Yeah.
And um I love seeing all these companies
now, you know, now you see a bunch of
tech companies turning the camera around
and them being like here's how the
earnings went. Like I've been doing that
for a while now. And so I'm
that's what I mean.
Uh it's I think it's really fun. And I
and because I'm now seeing other
companies do that, I'm like, okay, so
like now how can I keep going from here?
How do I like what's the next step here?
How do I re-qualify? I've done that
already. I've done the like go directly
on earnings. It's like what's the what's
the 10x version of that? What's the
global maximum version of that? And that
makes it really fun.
Despite what you uh may think of
yourself, I think of you as a worldclass
storyteller.
Thank you.
How how did you develop that skill? What
does that look like? Like how do we make
other people world class or better at
storytelling?
Practice really helps. You know, now I
get to do like the knowledge project.
This is like this is a big podcast. I'm
not trying to, you know, blow smoke or
flatter you, but this is a big podcast.
Um, I didn't start by doing the Shane
Parish podcast. I started by doing a lot
of tiny little local podcasts and
watching them over and over again. You
know, I know there's some people that
that hate watching themselves on camera.
Uh, maybe this sounds like narcissistic
or something, but I I don't mind. I
actually like the I like watching it
because I was able to remove connector
words, for example. I say um a lot less
than most people do because I've watched
myself do it a lot and I'm like I'm
gonna fix this particular issue.
That's the first thing. The second thing
is I think a lot of people end up trying
to emulate other speakers.
I see a lot of in tech in particular,
there was an era where like everyone
kind of sounded like Gary Vaynerchuk for
a little bit. I know Gary well. He's a
friend. I think Gary's an incredible,
you know, speaker and and his keynotes
are are legendary. But that's his style.
And then you see other people that try
to do the whole Rogan thing or the Shane
thing or the Tim Ferrris thing. And and
I don't I never tried to be somebody
else. I wanted to be my the version of
me which is a little bit excited, not
always as perfectly articulate. I speak
very quickly. I I want to make sure
everyone understands me. But I've sort
of developed my own style of it. And
maybe the third thing which is probably
obvious but great mentors, people that I
deeply look up to when it comes to
speaking. Uh and I I think the person
that has probably done the most for me
in terms of watching how he speaks, how
he captures the attention of a crowd
with story is Seth Seth Goden. I think
Seth Goden is the world's greatest
storyteller. He can tell a story about
uh Brussels sprouts. I have a great
story about Brussels sprouts he talks
about. He can tell a story about coffee
or purple cows and and watching him and
talking to him and learning from him
and then it's just reps. How many reps
have you done? I mean, the reason that
you know Toby is such a great coder is
he's written more code than probably
anyone else at Shopify even now. I mean,
he doesn't write as much code now as he
once did, but just in terms of longevity
of software development, he's had more
reps than other people have done. We we
hear this about athletes all the time
that like the greatest athletes were the
ones that got up early that went to the
gym before the everyone else got to the
gym like they had had double workout.
That's a big part of it. I think the
other thing is the the content you talk
about. I think it is really easy to talk
about
stories that are your stories. When I
when I when I tell a story, whether it's
about Shopify or it's about my life or
my family or DJing or something like
that, I always start with my experience
when I was 13, when I was 18, when I
traveled here. I think by starting with
you and you putting yourself into the
story, one,
it can't be wrong because it's your
story. you like it's happened to you but
two it immediately invokes if if if it's
true you can speak with such conviction
with such passion
the easiest story for me to tell is out
of Shopify because the story of Shopify
is a story of entrepreneurship and the
sto and but my story is also of
entrepreneurship my family story about
entrepreneurship my friends around me
you know you know almost every one of my
best friends they're all entrepreneurs
some of them are in the restaurant
business and some of them are in fintech
and some of them are lawyers. But what
they all have in common is they all are
first and foremost entrepreneurs. So the
storyline that I've chosen is
entrepreneurship.
And it's not an accident that the
company that I've committed to for so
long, for decades, is the
entrepreneurship company. Could I sell
cars or could I sell
biotech?
Maybe. I don't think I can be I can tell
the the the story in that way. I think
part of what is wonderful about
modernday business leadership is that we
are not selling widgets.
I think I don't if you've ever watched
like some of the old um like Glengary
Glenn Ross movies or uh I mean frankly
like
always be selling.
Oh yeah. ABC, right? Closing.
Always be closing.
Always be closing. Uh you know coffees
for closers. You watch some of these old
school business or even um uh shoot Wall
Street
uh Michael Douglas amazing movie. You
watch these movies and you see these
like business owners in these movies and
it's a reflection of course of of of the
society at the time but they were
selling widgets. The executive could be
selling tires or the executive could be
selling soda water or they can be
selling whatever. It didn't matter. They
were implementing the same strategies to
sell one widget as they would any other.
In many ways, business is now way more
personal. And I think one of the
advantages of it being more personal is
that you're able as a like the company
can attract people whose personal
mission is tied into the company's
mission. I don't think that there are
any when I look at every leader that I
admire, business leader that I admire,
entrepreneur that I admire,
there there's no accident for why
they're at their company or why they
built their company. either they
experienced a problem themselves and
they went to solve the problem or they
had something happen to them when they
were younger in life and and that kind
of changed their mindset around that
that that product. There is a deep
connection to it. There's I mean
Firebelly Tea, my little tea uh uh tea
company that I started Dave Seagull that
you you're now involved with a little
bit. Um,
the reason I wanted to start this
company with Dave is like there was no
one on the planet more passionate about
tea. And the fact that David Seagull,
who created David's Tea, was not running
a tea company, you know, in in in the
modern world was ridiculous.
All he cares about is tea. Of course, he
should be he should start a tea company.
He already started one because of, you
know, some interpersonal issues. He
ended up leaving his his his company. Of
course, you should start it. If you are
deeply passionate about something, I
wear a James Purse t-shirt every day.
And today, I'm wearing all James Purse.
Of course, James Pur is successful
because no one thinks about GSM counts
or ri more than he does. No one thinks
about Japanese cotton versus American
cotton more than he does. No one thinks
about actually these are uh they're
called the parachute pants. These are
his favorite pants. Um I I hung out with
him a couple weeks ago and we both
literally walked in wearing the exact
same thing. Of course, these pants are
amazing because he made these pants for
himself. It just turns out that
thousands of other people also want to
wear those pants. The idea that the
people that are running businesses are
deeply connected to those businesses and
the products they're creating, I think,
is a new way to run companies that our
parents and grandparents didn't have.
Some, you know, go back 150 years. Some
of the bakers truly loved baking, but
some of them
just did so because they had to survive.
My grandfather had no interest in eggs
whatsoever. Anytime I tried to engage
him on eggs, I got a blank stare. He
wasn't selling eggs because he cared
about eggs. He was selling eggs as a
means of survival.
Forced entrepreneurship and
passion-based entrepreneurship are very,
very different things. And the idea of
us, you doing your life's work and me
doing my life's work, that is a concept
that was foreign to our parents and
grandparents.
Totally. They did sort of what they had
to to
life's work. That's a nice, you know,
like I can I never said that to my
grand ex. That's a luxury, young man.
You know, wow, aren't you lucky? That
sounds like a hobby to me,
you know, as opposed to they were rough
and tumble. They were like do whatever
we needed to do to survive. If it was
eggs or it was garments or whatever, you
know, we're sitting in Montreal right
now and about 10 kilometers north of
here is the Chauvanel garment district.
Um, the Shabel Garmin District is an
iconic area. It's probably four streets
by four streets and American Apparel,
Buffalo Jeans, Algo Industries, so many
companies, Karuko,
uh, more more modern companies, Essence
is based there now. Um, Moose Knuckles
is based there. It's this tiny little
area that so much of the apparel
industries that we know today were
created out of. Why did that exist?
Existed because it was the lowest
barrier to entry. The needle trade or
the schmata business, which is sort of
the the Jewish version of that. The
reason you see so many Jewish immigrants
go into the schmata business, the needle
trade is because low barrier entry. They
couldn't go to biotech. Biotech had a
high barrier entry. You couldn't be you
couldn't have no money and start a
biotech company or start a
pharmaceutical company or start a
technology company. But the clothing
business, you need a snow a sewing
machine and that's it. And I
it's wonderful that we have that
industry that's been built here. But
there's a lot of people that ended up
building those companies that built it
because they had no choice as opposed to
because they chose to be like James
chose to be in this industry.
You're the second person in the last
month who's mentioned him in his shirt.
So I got to check these.
You got to check them out. They're
they're great.
I want to come back to mentors for a
second. And so Seth Goden is one of your
mentors. You have a personal board of
directors in different aspects of your
life, whether it's relationship,
business, storytelling. Walk me through
uh some of the categories you have and
some of the people that are in those
categories.
One thing that I think a lot of people
and I myself made this mistake was that
you end up when you think about the idea
of a mentor, you end up thinking about
the 360 of the mentor like I'm going to
emulate everything about the mentor. My
experience has been that back to the
spiky object thing that any any mentors
that anyone watching or listening have
in their lives, they probably are really
good at something
like really good. Obviously, they
wouldn't be a mentor otherwise, but
they're probably lacking in other areas
entirely. And I had a mentor early on in
my life that ended up convincing me to
go to law school. And I won't say his
name now because I'm about to say
something fairly uh well, he won't mind,
but but I won't say his name anyway. Um,
he's one of convinced me to move to
Ottawa to go to law school. He convinced
me to go to law school to become a
better entrepreneur, not to become a
lawyer. Great man. I've known him since
I was a child. I was actually years
before I was the ring bearer at at his
first or second I think his first
wedding or second wedding. Which brings
me to my point is that like this guy is
an amazing career mentor and helped me
more than almost anyone else. He's not
exa he's not what I would call a
marriage or relationship mentor. He's on
his third marriage now.
um and he's happily married now, but
he's on his third marriage. If you try
to cargo cult everything about one
particular person, you're going to adopt
all their good stuff and all their bad
stuff. Instead, it's much easier to
figure out what are the couple things I
want to get good at. Um
entrepreneurship, being a great dad,
being a great, you know, entre uh
philanthropist, uh a great DJ, I want to
be a great tea entrepreneur. and then
looking at who's really good at that and
ask them specifically to help you with
that narrow category as opposed to being
a lot more broad. The other thing that
happens is that there's a um a
timeliness
to these mentors, meaning someone that
was your mentor. I don't know if you've
ever had any business coaches or any
coaches in your life.
Yeah.
So, I I think um I have a great coach in
my life right now. Um it's probably my
third or fourth coach that I've had. One
of the things I think about coaching and
business coaches in particular is at
some point you end up hearing a lot of
the same stories or lessons or tools.
Meaning they have this wonderful toolbox
and part of what you're paying them to
be your coach is for them to open their
toolbox and show you all their tools and
you can adopt some of them for yourself.
But eventually you've seen the entire
toolbox and that's a really good time
and it's not a negative thing. It's not
a criticism. It's a really good time to
sort of move on to the next coach. The
same thing goes with mentors that I
don't think
um with very few exception there's
probably not going to be any one mentor
that's going to be your life mentor in
perpetuity
because ultimately you are going to
change they're going to change you're
going to want some new perspectives but
one of the things that Lindsay and I did
before we got married was we began to
look at the the couples we knew most of
them meaningfully older than us and
saying who do we think has a really good
relationship a really good marriage
how can we kind of emulate that? And we
didn't say anything to them at the time,
but then after we got married, we began
to
nonchalantly start spending time with
them, like double dates with them and
kind of seeing how they interact with
each other and and what their like what
their style was with each other. And we
ended up developing kind of these
relationship mentors. We ended up
developing parental mentors. And it's
been a it's been awesome. It's been this
incredible thing. and and some of these
people that are sort of quote of our
mentors are
famous people. Um Lindsay and I recently
created our family foundation and we
want to have a real impact on our
foundation. I got a chance to uh to meet
David Rubenstein who created Carlile
Group and uh I interviewed him for Big
Shot which is my my little Jewish
podcast archive that I have with David
and David Rubenstein talked about the
rules of how he does philanthropy. So,
as an example, he talks about like he'll
only write a big check for an
organization or a foundation or a
charity where I'm going to get these
kind of wrong, but effectively it's the
project wouldn't start without him or
the project wouldn't end without him or
he can see the efficacy of the
investment in his in 10-year period and
it's deeply personal to him. And so, he
sort of puts up these kind of these
these this rubric and and if it fits
those categories, he's in. He'll he'll
give in David Rubbert's case, he'll give
like 10 million or hundred million
dollars. So, I began to ask David
about philanthropy well after the
interview happened. Tell me about this
and how do you look at that as well? Um,
I'm not necessarily sure David
Rubenstein is is a mentor per se, but he
has helped me shape my own understanding
of of philanthropy.
So, he's sort of one that's that's quite
famous. But, we also have some friends
here in Montreal who are not wellknown.
No one knows them. They're very quiet
philanthropists, but they the way they
do it is kind of strange. It's it's all
about like like some people talk about
impact investing. They kind of take this
entrepreneur approach to philanthropy,
meaning they'll be very precise about
what they donate to. So they'll say
they'll walk into a hospital and they'll
say, "Why is there a lineup here?" And
the foundation people, the hospital will
be like, "Well, unfortunately there's
only one machine and this is very
popular. This is a cancer screening
machine." They'll say, "Great. How much
is a second machine?" They'll be like,
"It's $2 million." Okay. Do you have
capacity for it? Not really. What do you
need? Well, I need a radiologist for it.
Well, how much is that? How much? And
then these people will sort of go away.
They'll come back to the hospital.
Literally a week later, they'll say,
"Great. We figured out that you need a
radiologist, need a machine, you need a
new location. You also need to change
some power to sort of for this all to
work because you don't have enough power
supply here. So, we think it's $4.5
million. We're going to go and raise
$4.5 million for this exact thing, this
precise thing." And lo and behold, six
months later, you walked into this
hospital. The machine is there. There's
no lineup anymore. and everything is
solved. So they are not doing this sort
of blanket philanthropy. They're very
being very precise. And so we've we've
done a we've been able to kind of find
these different people in these
different categories. And it's it's
amazing because you get this cheat sheet
for anything you want to get good at. I
started DJing again recently and I so I
began talking to there's this amazing
shop here called Moog. M OG Moo Audio
amazing like legendary music shop in in
in the world but certainly here in
Montreal. And so I started going to the
shop. more often hanging out there and
like listening to the DJs and ended up
meeting one of the DJ guy, Alex, who
runs a shop and asking him like, "So,
how do you think about like when you
beat mix, what do you do? Is it eight
beat counts or using new technology? How
do you think about fading?" Um, there's
there's something called um stems in
DJing. So, you take a song, there are
three stems. There's basically the drum
bass, like the beat, there's the vocals,
and there's the instrumentals. And I was
like, like when I was DJing, we couldn't
necessarily identify or isolate stems. I
was like, but you seem to be doing that
a lot when you're DJing. and I listen to
your Soundcloud stuff. And he's like,
"Well, here's how it You can do this in
every category of your life." And it
doesn't have to be these famous people.
It can be a random person you end up
meeting at the DJ shop. And it's been
it's been amazing for me and Lindsay.
It's been amazing for my my own life.
But I will say that uh a lot of a lot of
people try to emulate something like
that and there's this cringe factor
involved that I find that most people
can't get over. And the cringe factor is
often I have to
send a lot of text messages and a lot of
emails and a lot of even now that that
you know a lot some people know me I
still like I have zero cringe in my
life. I don't worry about cringe at all.
I never feel that way at all. So if
there's someone that I really want to
get, you know, intro to and start
working with and start getting
mentorship from, I will like I will go
fullon and I will never be
disrespectful.
But I have no issue with rejection
whatsoever. And I think that's the
largest blocker of why more people don't
create these personal boards of
directors. Let's go deeper on that for a
second. I think you hit on a really key
point, which is I I kind of think of
this as like most people don't want to
look like an idiot in the short term to
look like a genius in the long term. And
because they're unwilling to do
something where somebody might say no or
uh it might make them look, you know,
you want to start skateboarding. Well,
you you've got to get on a skateboard to
actually start skateboarding, but you're
going to look like a fool for the first
few months or maybe weeks or years or
whatever, but you're unwilling to do
that. And so, you never get better at
these things. I have very high cringe,
pain tolerance, whatever you want to
call it. I have no issue with that
whatsoever. I think that there is this
gets easier also with age. I find the
older I get, the less I really I really
care about that stuff. But yeah, I think
most people are not willing to look
stupid for a period of time. I think the
other thing is that I think about this
all from the the concept of like
entrepreneurship.
In my office uh here here in Montreal,
Shopify office, I have the original
screen print uh that Ben Francis used to
create Gym Shark. It was a gift. It's a
super meaningful gift that he gave me. I
love it. I have it hung up in my office.
Part of the reason why it's up there is
because I think that it's an amazing
gift. And Jim Shark is this homegrown
success story on Shopify. It exemplifies
everything we stand for. It's
incredible. But the other reason I have
it up there is because what most people
don't know is that that was not Ben
Francis's first company. That Ben
Francis actually had a bunch of failed
companies before he landed on Gym Shark.
And I think about this idea of this cost
of failure, not just from
entrepreneurship perspective, but in
general, you have to basically figure
out with any anything you're doing. What
is the cost of failure here? The cost of
failure is really high. You really have
to think about it. It's you have to sort
of do a little bit of like the math of
is the cost of is is the benefit of
success worth the cost of failure? And
sometimes it's just not.
But I mean, for $39 a month, you can
build a store. It's not a pitch for
Shopplay, but $39 you can build a store.
If it works, blow it up. If it doesn't
work, try something else.
There are still too many people that are
apprehensive that that that don't want
to put themselves out there because of
this fear of failure. And
I've long believed that, you know,
getting really really comfortable with
being uncomfortable is magic. It's
totally magic. And I wasn't always good
at that. I don't think you need to be
born with that. I think you can learn
that. I think you you can learn
resilience,
but I don't I don't know anyone that I
admire who's had success
who has not gone through that period of
making kind of look looking kind of
dumb. I don't know if Have you ever
watched the first interview you've ever
done?
Me? Oh god. Yeah. I wouldn't listen to
the first I think like 20 or 30 of them.
I wanted to get a catalog and then I
wanted to listen to them.
Sure. And then I I went for like a
really long run and I started listening
to them and I was like, "Oh my god." And
it's like I should have asked this
follow-up. Why did I phrase it that way?
And
um like you, I'm incredibly hard on
myself. Came back, went through every
transcript and like I was like, I want
to get better at this for everybody
else. But yeah,
there's no secrets
to why you've been so successful in my
in my view. I've known you now for a
number of years. You you simply outcare
other people. And I think that outcaring
thing
supersedes IQ, EQ,
raw talent.
Double click on that for a second.
I think that I will take someone. It's
the reason why I like entrepreneurs so
much that I think entrepreneurs, the
right entrepreneurs, the best
entrepreneurs, they just simply outcare
other people. They are willing to, if
you put two people in a room, um, one
person has 50% capacity, another person
100% capacity. But that 100% capacity
person is just not caring as much of the
50%. I think I can help that 50% person
get more skill. I'm not sure I can
change their level of ambition. I think
you can change ambition but I think like
sheer innate deep rooted ambition uh
which call it care whatever whatever
nomenclature you want to use. I think
that is a superpower
and it's also the reason why when I meet
someone they say what do you think I
should do with my life I often ask them
what what do you do for fun because
often the what you do for fun question
ends up turning into I really want to be
a fashion designer and I'm like you
should go be a fashion designer even
though you've never done it you may not
have the raw skills you will learn those
skills but you seem to really care about
this thing you're probably going to be
good at it is there a difference between
who cares cares the most and who wants
it more or the like how do you see that
nuance?
I look at them the same in my view. Um,
usually high care comes from high intent
or high uh an elevated level of desire
to succeed. I'm trying to teach my kids
that right now. I I spent a lot of, you
know, this is kind of weird, but I kind
of wish I had kids preipo rather than
post IPO.
Why?
I think
whatever success that I've had and
success of of of the things I've been
involved with,
they are more meaningful to me because
obviously I know where I come from. I
know how hard it was. But I also see how
Lindsay how my wife
sees my relationship with things I've
done in particular with Shopify. Lindsay
has great
a wonderful emotional connection. It's
Shopify for Lindsay, even my wife, is
not just a company. She remembers, you
know, those early days. She remembers
those like being on top of Tucker's
Marketplace and the Byward Market, uh,
the office stunk, like the buffet
restaurant and and struggling. This is
pre pre- series A even. And and I I like
that. I love that she knows that she
knows how meaningful because she's seen
the entire journey. Um, my my kids were
born in the last eight years or so. They
kind of only know our life being pretty
good. Our lives changed post IPO. I
don't think that's a secret financially.
My my life changed and and and I don't
take it for granted. But I kind of wish
they knew what Lindsay and my first
apartment looked like in in Ottawa,
Canada, and how gross it was. It wasn't
gross because it was dirty. It just was
a nice apartment because we couldn't
afford anything else. And so
what I often what Lindsay often tells me
is just like yeah the kids didn't see
that but but tell them those stories.
And so I do I tell those kids I tell my
daughters the stories of those early
days and how scary it was and we didn't
know if it was going to succeed or not.
And I want them to see that. think I
don't want them to think any of this
came
simply because it was fate or just kind
of happened or you know uh I mean luck
plays a role here but
this was
sheer grit and willpower and it still
is. Um part of the reason why I like
starting these small projects like Big
Shot or Firebelly is I I want the kids
to see that. I want the kids to see this
thing that, you know, that first episode
of Big Shot we did was it was Charles
Brothman.
It didn't do very well. I wasn't very
good at it. I wasn't a good interviewer.
I didn't know what questions to ask.
Dave and I were kind of awkward fumbling
along together. And Bailey, my eldest,
has sort of memorized most of that
episode. And now she watches that. She
They love watching Big Shot. They also
watched the most recent episode, Bobby
Kodic, who built Activision Blizzard. We
put that out last week. And uh and I
love watching her see the difference in
style and and the articulation
because I want her to know that like all
the things she wants in her life she can
have but it won't be easy. No one's
going to give it to her and it's going
to kind of suck at the beginning. go a
little bit deeper on that because you
know what came to mind when you were
saying that is this conversation I had
with Chris Bosch.
And the thing about that entire
interview that sticks out with me even
to this day is he told me this story
about how growing up they had nothing
and he loved to play the private school
kids
and beat them
cuz they're so entitled. He's like they
had air conditioning. They don't know
what it's like to work out in a gym when
it's 110 degrees. Yeah. They have no
idea. And I love to go in there and I
love to win. And he then at the end he
sort of like twisted this around. He's
like, "Now my kids are those private
school kids." It's really hard. I mean,
I don't want to create artificial
scarcity or artificial,
you know,
I don't want to create things that don't
exist for my kids and pretend like our
life is different than it is.
This is where Lindsay is really great.
Lindsay is a psychotherapist, so she
thinks a lot more about this than I do,
but she'll often remind me that like
it's not what you say, it's what you do,
it's what they see. And so, you know,
for example, um we're fortunate to have
um some help at the house, but like
Bailey makes her bed every day. Bailey
puts her dishes away. Now, that's very
different than, you know, what Chris
Bosch said about like, you know, where
how he grew up, but there's a certain
level of like respect that we show the
people that have helped us. There's a
certain level of care that we show the
people that are around us. I'm not sure
that I can invent
some sort of some version of poverty for
my children. I think that would that
would part of why I work harder so my my
my kids can have you know less of that
multigenerational trauma that I have
felt.
Yeah.
But I want them to be grateful and
hardworking and convict and and have
conviction. I want them to work on
projects together. I want them to fall
on their face when when they haven't
done the right thing. And I want I want
to celebrate them when they work really
really hard. Um, the type of school my
my my daughters go to now was the type
of school that my mom said I could she
couldn't afford to send me to.
And that that's one of the reasons why I
I I worry about am I doing all the right
things? Am I a great great parent? Am I
a great father? I I don't know that I
am. I I like, you know, Sundays here at
Shopify. We have something called
Builder Sundays. So, we open up the
offices. It's done in Montreal and
Toronto. So, anyone in the city uh
that's an entrepreneur can come in and
work from here. And I come in almost
every Sunday. And I bring I often will
bring bring the kids. Usually I'll bring
Bailey with me. And I'll just walk
around and I'll talk to people and ask
them how they can be helpful and stuff.
And I see Bailey watching me do this.
And she's like, "Well, like what's that
person doing?" I was like, "Oh, that
person's building a Shopify app." And
she's like, "Well, what did he ask?" And
I was like, "Well, he asked, you know,
once the app is built, how does he get
people to use the app?" And she said,
"Well, what'd you say?" And I said,
"Well, you know, like make sure the app
adds a lot of value." And then the first
five people that installed it, like call
them and ask them how you can make it
better. And if you've made it better and
they're happy, ask them to write a
review. And and so I'm beginning to
think that parenting is not that
complicated that we complicate it. We
try all these devices and and and te and
and and these techniques and these
programs and all these sort of things,
but ultimately they're just watching us
and and and they're going to they're
going to copy and they're going to
emulate the behavior they see from us.
And if we're respectful, they're going
to be respectful. And if we're
hardworking, they're going to be
hardworking. I think part of that, back
to that family motto of how you do
anything is how you do everything. I
don't actually care what my kids end up
doing professionally, whether they're
entrepreneurs or they're musicians or
they're, you know, they're they're tra
they have a they have a trade that they
work on. I just want them to have
intentionality. I don't want them to do
something just because, well, this is
kind of where life brought me. I hate
that. The opposite of how you do
anything is how you do everything is
this other term that I hate. I hate when
anyone says it, which is it is what it
is.
I don't believe that to be true. I hate
that expression. It is what it is. What
does it even mean? It is what it is. It
means that like somehow you were just
this thing happened. You're just
accepting it. You can change your own
fate. You can change your own life. You
can change everything about everything
around you. I want my kids to see that
that is not the way to live. That living
with great intentionality is important.
And
jury's still out on that. We'll see what
how how with how they turn out, but so
far they're pretty good kids.
I think you're you're really hard on
yourself.
What does high agency mean to you?
I don't think you have to have the glory
without the the high agency. Meaning, I
like people that take deep
responsibility for things. This idea,
you know, back to expressions that I
hate. Well, that's not my job.
That is an expression I loathe,
especially like in a in in a setting of
a company. Um, I I just I don't believe
that. I don't think that's and and
frankly at any stage of company. I mean,
there's sometimes where like that
literally is someone else's job. I get
that. But high agency is someone that
sees a problem and says, "I'm going to
fix it." And then fixes it themselves.
That they take they put themselves in in
into the role of singlethreaded owner,
responsible person.
I take high agency in everything that I
have. It's actually a great term. I
don't I actually don't think about that
term that often. I love that term. I
think the people I admire most all have
high agency. They see something, they
they take responsibility for it, which
means that if it goes well, it's up it's
it's their win. If it doesn't go well,
it's their loss. But they are able to
they have the levers in their hand.
They're able to
maneuver those levers however they best
see fit, and they're willing to accept
the consequences of those results.
funny anecdote tying together parenting
and uh it's not my job which triggered
this memory. I mean I once asked my kids
I think they were seven and eight at the
time. I was like okay go clean the
bathrooms in the house and they knew how
to do it so asking them seemed
appropriate.
And my 8-year-old looked at me and he's
like uh that's not my job. Tess who is
our house you know the lady who cleaned
our house every couple weeks. He's like,
"That's Tessa's job." And I remember
just sitting there for like a brief
second and I was like, "What do I do in
this situation?" So, I like picked up my
phone. I called Tess and I said, "Tess,
uh, you don't have to come in tomorrow.
Don't worry about it. You're going to
get paid and the kids have volunteered
to do all of your all of the stuff that
you normally do for us."
Amazing. And so I made this list and it
was like long and I was like you can't
do any iPad, no movies, no anything
until this list is complet.
Guess what? Now it is your job.
And not once since that day have they
ever pushed back when I asked them to do
anything around the house or help out.
They're like, "No problem. Of course."
I think it's Look, and and it's not that
your your son was saying something
wrong. He actually thought it was% which
is why again like
it it's this crazy paradox like we we
work so hard to give our kids these
great these great lives and make their
lives better but ultimately we don't
want to deprive them from the things
that actually will give them their own
satisfaction later on. I have a uh you
know without sort of naming any names I
have uh two two people that are close to
me that are both third generation kind
of big families meaning you know each of
their parents I think were billionaires
okay very wealthy people um and in both
cases so I know the third gen in both
cases one of them is one of the hardest
working people I know the other one is
not at all like the opposite super
laidback and they're both very happy
people. They're both wonderful people,
but it's fascinating to me
how both of them are third gen yet
completely different. And it's all about
the values they set. One really wants to
prove that
he was able to, you know, he benefited
from the pasture generations, but he's
going to make his own mark in the world.
making his own mark is deeply important
to him because he wants to have personal
meaning, personal accomplishment. The
other one is like, look, I basically won
the lottery, so I'm gonna I'm gonna
enjoy life more than anybody else
because like I don't even know how this
happened, but I'm going to enjoy it.
Neither of them are wrong or right, but
I'm fascinated by how parenting
translate into ambition and translate
into meaning and conviction. I think a
lot about that.
I don't know. I definitely I'm a little
ahead of you with the kids' ages, but I
definitely do not have any answers to
that. One of the only pieces of advice
Charlie Mer gave me about parenting over
dinner once was
the parents that try to artificially
impose a different lifestyle on their
kids than they are living. Uh, and he
gave an extreme example of a guy getting
like chauffeured to work with a driver
and then telling his kids to get a
very Charlie version of this
of McDonald's, right? And he said that
that does nothing but cause resentment.
Yeah. Because then again, now you're
creating something artificial. It's not
it's not it's not real.
I want them, you know, I I want them to
I want it to be real.
I see it actually. I set up my my new DJ
booth um in my house and every time I DJ
I can almost count it like within 30
seconds both kids will come up and say I
want to DJ too.
Amazing.
I could have bought them DJ equipment
for themselves. That's sort of a I don't
know like a rich dad thing to do like
I'm DJing. I got you DJ equipment. No,
instead they see how much fun I'm having
DJing and I love DJing. I B I put it on
Instagram stories every Sunday. Uh a
couple different mixes that I do. But
they watch how much fun I have and then
they want to do it. And now they're
they're asking me about DJ equipment.
And of course my answer is well you
should save your money. Like you can do
chores and you have birthday money and
all that. Eventually you can save your
money and I will go with you to the
store. We'll buy we can buy DJ equipment
for you. But I never would have been
able to um to inspire them to think
about this thing called DJing and music
if I was just throwing it at them rather
by showing them how much I enjoy it.
They seem to gravitate to it way more.
I love that.
Yeah.
I want to come back to something we
talked about earlier in terms of trying
to be great and intentional at
everything you do, which means you have
to pick and choose what you do.
One of the things that you've talked
about in the past, we've never talked
about, but you've talked about in the
past is sort of your calendar management
system for prioritization.
And I often had this theory before I
heard your story and I people would when
I ran a team uh for the government,
people would tell me their priorities
and I'd be like, "Show me your calendar.
Don't don't tell me your priorities.
Show me your calendar." Um, talk to me
about how you use that to set priorities
and then audit that you're spending time
on the right things.
Well, the audit's the easy one because I
um I'm fairly compulsive about auditing
my calendar once a quarter. Um, and I do
that with my team here at Shopify. I
also do with with Lindsay with my wife.
So, like Lindsay is also deeply involved
in sort of in in in diorizing my
priorities. I everything. I
interview we're doing together. I
calendar what I'm gonna do between now
and our dinner tonight. I calendar our
dinner tonight. Um
I find that putting everything into my
calendar, even though it sounds
ridiculous to have like walk with wife
or um meditation. I want to meditate
more. I I I I have anxiety. Um I've
managed it really well, but part of how
I manage is through meditation. Show me
your you want to see my priorities? Show
my calendar. Every morning there's a
calendar. I I do eight minutes a
morning. There's a calendar um reminder
about meditation. It's in the calendar.
It's it's and it's permanent. It's
always in there. It's been there for
years. So, I think most people use their
calendar professionally, but they don't
want to use it personally. It almost
feels I don't know. It it feels icky to
them or it feels too overly prescriptive
and and formal. It's not me. Everything
is in there. It's really, really
important. Years ago, someone sent me
the Paul Graham makers versus managers
time,
which effectively is that, you know, the
way that at least Paul Graham describes
it is that he's got these blocks called
managers time, like they're 30-minute
blocks. Then he has makaker times, which
are a lot longer for deeper thinking
times. So I I I do that quite a bit and
I try to kind of bundle my my my meeting
days on certain days, usually Monday,
Wednesday, Fridays, and then more of my
like my maker days, Tuesdays, and
Thursdays where I can have long form
blocks of time to do thinking, to do
writing, if I'm writing a speech or I'm
now preparing for Shopify Summit, which
would bring a whole team together, I
have to write my keynote. I'm just I'm
intentional about that stuff. I don't
think there's any other way to do it.
What I also find is that I color code
everything. And so what I can do by
color coding everything is that I can
see like um last night Lindsay and I had
dinner with another couple. It was
really great, but that that was color
coded in purple. Um sort of social
dinners. And when I'm looking on a
Sunday night reviewing my week and I see
a lot of those social dinners, I'm like
I think this week is a little too heavy.
And so now I can sort of adjust. Okay.
Like I'm okay to have one social dinner
during the week. I can't have two or
three of those. I'll just like like I
need to I need to preserve my own
energies as well. The color coding thing
is really helpful because you can see
visually that like where am I where's my
time going. Jesse Iller, I don't if you
know Jesse, he's the founder of Marquee
Jet. Um he's married to Sarah Blakeley
who created Spanx, but I I did um an
endurance race that he created called
2929. It's called Everesting.
Effectively, you there's like 12 of
them, but you you climb these mountains
and you emulate climbing Ever Mount
Everest, which is 29,029 ft.
Yes.
And I did the Evering race last
September. I'm doing again this year uh
in Mont Trrombla. And so I got a chance
to meet Jesse and spend some time with
him and also kind of I now follow him on
on social media. And he's got this thing
called the big ass calendar. It's
literally a big ass calendar. And part
of the reason why it's actually he sells
it on Shopify. It's pretty cool. But the
reason why he does it is because it's in
his office on the wall and he can see
literally 365 days everything visually.
And what he starts doing, which which I
I really love, and I've tried to do this
a little bit, although I don't have it
on printed out, is he'll start the year
by saying, "Okay, what are the most
important things?" So, he'll put in like
like school graduations or birthdays or
earnings calls or whatever is is
important to him. And then he'll add to
it. Okay, trips. Add the trips in. And
once you actually have everything
visually in front of you, now you're
able to sort of take a step back and say
like, "Okay, now you see my calendar. Do
you see my priorities? If I want to if I
want to get better at like running,
where's the running stuff in there? If
it's if it's sporadic, it's obviously
not a priority. And there is this, you
know, I think lying to yourself is like
is kind of insane. That that's really
where stress comes from. I find I think
stressing stress like comes from like
when like fundamentally your mind and
like your body like are just not aligned
very well. And when you look at
something and you keep saying, "I'm
really going to get into tennis in 2026
and you're looking at your calendar and
there's like not much tennis on it,"
you're like, "Well, obviously that's
bullshit." Like, I'm lying to myself.
It's not that important. And I I think
the calendar and especially like the
great part about a digital calendar is
you have it always on you. It's always
synced everywhere. Your iPad, your
desktop, your laptop, your phone, you
have it everywhere available to you. You
can add people to it as well. It just
makes everything so much easier. Now,
now for the downside. It can also be a
burden. I'm taking the the kids um it's
a long weekend here and I'm taking the
kids uh and Lindsay and I and the kids
are going to New York this weekend and
we want to go see Broadway shows and
like we're huge foodies. Want to some
great restaurants. Uh Taylor Swift's new
restaurant, favorite restaurant. It's
going to go to Corner Store. We want to
go there and and my wife and I like want
to do a spin class and all that.
So, if you were to look at my New York
calendar coming up for this weekend,
you would look at me like, dude, like,
you're missing out on life. There's no
room for serendipity. There's no room
for you just getting lost in Central
Park. There's no room for you just
turning down the wrong street in Soho
and finding a really cool boutique at a
great sneaker shop. There's no room for,
you know, I don't know, your kids like
you taking a nap randomly.
That's true. That's not me. I'm not the
sorbatic guy. I'm not the serendipity
guy. I know who I am. I'm the type of
person that wants to see my calendar for
the next 4 days and be like, it's all on
there because that's what gives me joy.
And for other people, they would find it
to be completely anxietyinducing, but
that's not who I am. So, I think being
honest about the types of things that
like you're into and how you want to
live your life and then reflecting it
and manifesting it in a way that like
actually allows you to create these
guard rails is super super helpful.
I appreciate that as a youer. Yeah, I I
don't calendar sort of like go for a
coffee, but you know, every morning 9 to
12 is usually blocked off. There's no
meetings. I tend to schedule things
around energy. So like things I don't
appreciate or like doing as much tend to
go in the afternoon when I'm lower
energy than in the morning.
I'm glad we're recording this in the
afternoon. Thank you. That's
Yeah, that's not what I meant. I mean
like lawyers or accountants or like
reviewing things, you know, those aren't
high energy tasks for me. And but I've
never thought about sort of like
starting the year and putting in the
most important dates first. I don't
really use color coding to the extent
that I probably should. And this helps
on the visual side of it. You're like,
"Why is there so much green this week?"
You're like, "What's green?" Oh yeah,
green is like whatever, you know? Uh uh
extracurricular like there's too much
green like you know I something's wrong
here. It just allows you to just have
the like holy moment. Something is
off here. There's no balance here.
For me, my calendar needs to look like a
rainbow. If it looks like a rainbow, I
know that I have this balance like that.
I'm I myself am looking for
I love that. I want to come to AI and
how it's impacting the workforce that
you guys have, how it's impacting other
things. But let's start with Toby put
out a memo and we've talked about this
sort of like texting and so the memo
came out and he he put it out there. He
said basically if you're not AI by
default, you're in a lot of trouble.
Y
talk to me about that.
He actually said something slightly
different which he said that if you were
not using AI reflexively,
which is a very interesting term to use,
right? by default is one thing.
Reflexively is different. Meaning in
your jobs, everyone that's listening and
watching when you have a problem that
you're working on, a challenge, a
project, are you reflexively thinking
about what tool exists right now that I
can pull down to help me do my job
better? And that's I mean that memo
obviously got leaked. It was an internal
memo that he sent to the whole team. And
he's done this before. I mean, you know,
historic I've guess quas famously he did
a memo about Shopify mobile that like we
were still living kind of in like the
desktop world and it was clear that
e-commerce in particular was moving more
to a mobile device that more traffic was
coming and but Shopee was still building
kind of in this like web browserbased
you know desktop world and so he wrote
this he wrote a memo to the company and
eventually it also got leaked. So maybe
the story here is that a lot of things
when you're a big company getting
leaked, but it was an important memo
because it was a reminder to the company
that like look this isn't just some
random new tool. This is a new type of
programming language. This is a
fundamental
paradigm shift in the way we all work
and whether you are a storyteller where
before I'm preparing for something uh
and I'm like hey I just I want to check
a couple things like here are the stats
that I have. I can throw it into I like
to use Perplexity or um I actually
really love Claude for projects on
personal views Claude. But for Claude
what I do is I have like I have a
project for like health and wellness. So
every blood test I have I upload there.
Actually Toby kind of showed me how to
like how to create these projects in a
really interesting way that has these
great triggers. And so something comes
in over email from my doctor blood test
I put it in there. Um or I'll have one
around speaking. So I've uploaded every
one of my transcripts of speaking. And
so I can write something and I can put
it into claude and I can say from a tone
perspective does this sound like me?
Like what parts of this doesn't doesn't
you know doesn't feel like my other
talks or have I told this story before?
It's this amazing tool. So I think what
what he does so well is like he is the
he's the Overton window shifter and he
like he kicks that window hard. And so
he just wanted to make sure that at
Shopify if you work here you are within
the like the origin window of AI like
being reflexive is deeply met in the
culture. Something else happened um in
February of this year. I had our um we
did our Q4 earnings call. So Jeff and I
CFO were on the earnings call and then
there were a bunch of reports the
analyst reports come out after the
earnings call and stuff. I think we have
like 46 or 47 analysts covering Shopify
and a bunch of the reports mentioned on
the actually criticized me for saying
and also we were surprised that Harley
did not talk more about AI
and I was like it's like this is weird
like what like two or three reports came
out like that. I was like this is
strange. So I I listened to the call
again and I listened to a lot of other
calls too. What I realized was I get it.
All these other companies that reported
around the same time as we did,
they basically spent 50% of the call
talking about AI
our AI investments, what AI is going to
do for our customers. It was like
if you sort of word clouded the earnings
call scripts
by far AI would have been the largest
cloud and it wasn't for us. It was I I
mentioned I talked about Shopify magic
and all that and
it it dawned on me that
the reason that we were I was criticized
we were criticized for this was that
like I think a lot of companies are very
hand wavy about AI like AI is going to
change our company and and it's going to
like you know uh it's like that poster
of like an eagle with leadership
underneath and people like what's our
culture? It's that poster. No, that's
not like that's a stupid poster. Culture
is like what people do, how people feel,
what what what happens when no one's
watching. What is what does the team do?
That's real culture. Putting a sign up
is is is completely superficial
nonsense. Well, a lot of companies are
sort of talking about AI right now in a
similar sort of superficial like
nonsense kind of way.
Ultimately, if you think about the
mission of Shopify, it's we want to
create more entrepreneurs. We want to
make entrepreneurship more accessible.
we want more people to use it to
whatever their version of success is.
Maybe it's to be the youngest
billionaire in the UK like Ben Francis
and Gym Shark or maybe it's just to
afford, you know, hockey equipment. But
we think that entrepreneurship allows
anyone to do that. It's the great
equalizer.
The
unfair advantage that
like unfair like big unfair advantage
that large companies have over small
companies is headcount. that they have a
lot of people and so they have a lot of
people doing a lot of different jobs.
As easy as we've made entrepreneurship,
there's still that
there's still a resource constraint if
you are a one man or one woman or a one
person operation. You don't have a lot
of different teams.
What we think is so fundamentally
gamechanging and and
mindblowing about AI is that we are
actually one of the companies I think
that's best positioned to utilize it to
create this like step function advantage
for the people that use Shopify
especially the small businesses. This
idea that we don't have an AI product
but rather AI is built all across
Shopify I think is absolutely
incredible. Um, on Big Shot, I
interviewed Mickey Drexler. Mickey
Drexler ran the Gap for 20 years. Do you
know Mickey? Yeah.
Have you had him on the show? Yeah. You
haven't? Okay.
Amazing guy. As you know, he can tell
stories forever. Uh, so Mickey told me
that when he was at the Gap, the Gap had
these like massive merchandising teams
and product photography teams. And as he
was telling me this, the first thing I
thought about was,
"Oh my god,
if you compare Mickey Trucks for running
the Gap in 1997, 1998 doing billions of
dollars, a one person operation at their
mom's kitchen table right now on
Shopify, who needs to write a product
description, who needs to do product
photography,
I suspect that today they can have a
higher converting, a higher a a highly
optimized or higher optimized product
description and a better product
photography taken
than Mickey's 300 person team. That to
me is like the ultimate that that's what
like that's why AI matters to Shopify.
It's not about the handwavy all this
stuff and earnings call word cloud
bubble stuff. It's about can we actually
even further bend like the learning
curve and the baron entry into
entrepreneurship. Nothing quite does
this like AI does. Now, it doesn't mean
you can effectively set it like set it
and forget it, but it just means that
it's going to be a huge mass advantage.
And I think the way that we're doing it
is not simply by having one AI product,
but rather literally embedding it across
all of Shopify. I think that's going to
be
from a trajectory perspective you will
see a pre and a post trajectory of
business growth particularly small
business growth because of AI
relative to almost every other
technology that came out. I mean it is
it is so substantially
valuable for small teams because it it
puts so much of their
it gives them so many more resources in
a way that they would never had unless
they had bigger teams. And ultimately,
if you think about like as a consumer,
you are buying a t-shirt. You want to
buy the very, very best t-shirt. You
don't really care if the t-shirt company
has 300 people or three people. You care
about the t-shirt itself. But
unfortunately, that 300 person company
historically was able to get in front of
more customers because they had
merchandising teams and marketing teams
and product photography teams and all
types of other teams. But now that three
person team can actually do as much as a
300 person. In fact, maybe they can do
it better. And I think that is going to
be remarkable. So I think from a um I
think from a Shopify perspective, I
think our merchants will get a lot
better uh and grow a lot faster because
of it. But I think the companies that
are able to adopt and this is really the
like the crux of the like everyone was
surprised by that memo that Toby sent
out. We were not like most people at
Shop were not surprised by that. It was
the most Toby memo. It was like I want
to be clear. Everyone's talking about AI
but what does it really mean? It means
that if you work at Shopify the
expectation is that you use it
reflexively. The expectation is before
you go and try to hire an another person
for your team, you ask yourself and you
you test whether or not some sort of AI
tool can actually do it better for you.
And if it can, that's what you should be
doing. And I mean, the teams and the
companies that embrace that are going to
be far more successful than ones that
adopt it with some, you know, mediocre
energy.
I was talking to my kids the other day
and I was like, you have a thousand
employees at your fingertips.
Yes.
And they were like, what do you mean?
And it was like all these GPUs, they
work for you.
Yes.
They do exactly what you ask them to do
and they do it better
for 20 bucks
in a lot of ways than most humans do at
this point.
100%.
And especially with different models
coming out and evolving.
That's right.
It it's fascinating to me. What do you
think the impact will be on Shopify in 5
years? Like internally, not for your
merchants, but like do you need 10,000
employees? Do you need like how does
this change the the dynamic? I mean in
terms of size of the company we I I
think the size of our company right now
and the shape of our company right now
is is is is it's really good. Like we
are very happy with the size. It means
we can do more with with with the same
amount of people. It means we can go
into new areas. It means we can build
faster. I think not just for Shopify but
I think the companies that are going to
be that are going to embrace it. Not
utilize it but truly embrace it and make
it part of their daily flow. I mean look
we talked about schedules and and and
and prioritization just before.
Once a quarter when I have time I I go
and look through my calendar. I can now
create a very simple like agentic tool
that basically looks at my calendar
every week and on Sunday it says dude
you got too many social things or dude
you got too many one-on-one meetings or
like whatever it is I can be all the
things that I want to do in my life I
think can be made better for that. Um
one of my mentors is a guy named Ben
Sadun. Aldo's 85 years old. Um he was um
a Moroccan immigrant to Canada. He built
Aldo shoes. um he's you know he's he's
built a multi-billion dollar company and
um Ald and I were giving a talk together
um at uh he just gave a bunch of money
to McGill to create the the Benson
School of Retail uh faculty of retail at
McGill which is I'm involved with a
really really cool faculty and um we're
on stage and I said to Aldo I'm sort of
like Aldo is kind of an old school guy
and I said Aldo what do you think of AI
and I was kind of like it was a bit of a
joke I was kind of poking fun of like
the young guy like the young retail guy
poking the old retail guy
and Aldo without skipping a beat says
it's like having a best friend in your
pocket. This is an 85-year-old man. He's
seen, you know, he's seen everything.
He's seen all new technology for the
last, you know, eight and a half
decades. But even the fact that he can
appreciate
how much
leverage you get with this new
technology, I think I think is amazing.
So, I think it'll make us move faster. I
think it'll allow us to build stuff with
smaller teams. I think it'll allow our
merchants to make better decisions. I I
think you're going to see, you know, I'm
I'm I'm blown away even pre kind of some
of these large language models and AI
tools coming out in the last four or
five years.
I've been I' I I found it to be
remarkable that these companies that
started in 2014 have become billion
dollar companies in the last 10 or 11
years. Typically, business don't happen
like that. It took decades to become
hegemonic, to become the leader in your
category. And now you have um companies
like I don't want to Viori, Alo Yoga.
These companies didn't exist a decade
ago and now they are absolutely
unequivocal category leaders. It's wild.
Took them like less than 10 years. Figs
completely disrupted. Trina and Heather
completely disrupted the hospital scrub
industry. You walk into any hospital in
North America, maybe in the world, and
you look around and see like what most
doctors are wearing or nurses are
wearing, it's figs. that didn't exist a
decade ago and now they're publicly
traded multi-billion dollar company. So
I've already been
it's been astonishing for me to watch
from this perspective. Shopplay
basically runs about 12% of all US
e-commerce. So if you were to think
about like just in terms of size-wise
like we're like the second largest
checkout on the internet in the US at
least but in other countries maybe even
more so than that.
The trajectory of business growth has
been so remarkable so fast. 10 years you
go from an idea to a multi-billion
dollar publicly traded company. Now you
add on this like layer of AI which means
you can make better decisions faster.
You can make smaller teams way more
productive. I think you're going to have
another step function. Like I think that
you will have this incredible hockey
stick curve of businesses that grow from
zero to hund00 million in GMV inside of
three years instead instead of inside of
like 10 years. And
I mean I pray at the altar of
entrepreneurship and there's been a
couple things over the last you know 50
years that has made it much better.
Obviously the internet has made it much
better. Obviously things like Shopify
has made it much better. But I think
like this new era where you have all
these things stacked with AI. Um it is
the golden age of entrepreneurship and
I'm I'm here for it. I think a lot of
people our age are in more trouble than
they realize if they're not using it.
And I say this because I had dinner with
a few friends the other night and this
subject came up and I was like, how is
everybody using AI? Like I'm always
interested in how other people like you
were talking about sort of like putting
your blood test results in a project
include and I'm like I'm trying to learn
from other people and almost all of them
were like ah it hallucinates so I I like
don't use it very much. And I'm just
like, "Wow, like that's" and then
they're like, "What are you doing with
it?" And I go on for like 10 minutes,
right? Like I'm I'm coding. I haven't
done that in like 10 years. I'm doing
all these things with it. And they're
just like, "Wow." I mean, you can
literally generate a Python script right
now in a matter of 30 seconds with
OpenAI right now. You can generate you
can build an app in a matter of like I
mean, back to what you just said. Um
that reaction of I tried it once, it
hallucinated.
I think one of the things that you have
to have if you're going to be successful
in this new era of business and and
actually in any in any era with all this
new technology is you have to be a
techno optimist. You have to believe
that things are getting so good at such
a quick pace that it doesn't matter that
it hallucinated that the next time you
use it, it probably won't hallucinate.
And I think if you get stuck in this
trap of it hallucinated once, therefore
I now have scar tissue. I'm not going to
use it, you're going to fall behind.
It's one of the reasons why one of my
mentors has I think one of the reasons
he spends time with me is he loves
hanging out with people younger than
him, much younger than him. I'm I'm 40
30 years younger than him. Uh and he
used to run one of the largest companies
in Canada. He's an amazing man. And I
always noticed that that like he's
always hanging out with younger people.
And I had someone I said, "You seem to
like, you know, uh, you seem to like
hanging out with with other people."
He's like, "Cuz you guys teach me
stuff." He's like, "My friends don't
teach me as much." He's my friends are
in their 60s and 70s. We talk about
golf. We talk about whiskey or wine,
whatever. But when I hang out with you,
Harley, you tell me about like the new
DJ equipment and how like it's all
powered by AI and you tell me about this
new stuff and and then he goes one step
further. He's like, and he also has
friends that are in their 20s and they
tell me about all types of new
technology. And I think there is this
there's something maybe this is one of
the great parts but but like one of the
advantages of having kids is you see how
they're interacting. You see what
they're doing. Um you know I I sent a
note over to David who's a CEO of Roblox
and I was just explaining to them that
the way my kids use Roblox is actually
yes they're playing a game but rather
the game is almost
passively in the background. They're
having a conversation and rather than
looking at each other, they're looking
at this game together. They're kind of
playing. But the actual in in at least
for my kids who are, you know, who's
Bailey's 8 years old, Roblox for her is
simply a central chat room.
Yep.
It is not actually about the game
itself.
And rather than staring at the person's
face on screen as being the main focal
point, the, you know, the face is kind
of in the bottom right corner. the main
focal point isn't in some random game
and and rather you know it's maybe and
David of course knows this but it's like
what you've created is like a social
network and like you call it a you know
game ecosystem and all that but watching
how people are using this technology is
is remarkable and uh it's I think if you
are a technoptimist and you're paying
attention to all these things that are
happening it is tough not to be
incredibly optimistic about like where
we are and the world we're living in
right now It's it's amazing.
I could go on for another couple hours.
I think this is a probably a good moment
to sort of wrap this up. We always end
with the same question. Uh which is what
is success for you?
I think about this term I mentioned a
few times life's work. I think about
this term deviv which is joy of life
which is some beautiful French term that
is you know or for me like Montreal is
the deviv capital. Um I want more of
those things in my life. I want to do
more of my life's work. work. I want to
have more deviv in my life and I don't
want to I don't want to sacrifice either
of those things. Um I think that's what
success looks like. The the the
harmonization of devivve and life's work
would be um
that would make me successful. I think
that's a beautiful answer and we'll have
to do part two because I got a million
more questions. But thank you.
I appreciate it.
Appreciate it. You've just spent your
most valuable asset with me, your time.
My commitment to you is that you get the
best possible return on that investment
moving forward. Subscribing and hitting
that thumbs up button ensures my team
and I can continue to bring you amazing
conversations like the ones on your
screen right now. Until next time.